Layered System:
Cache: - responses from the server must be declared as cacheable or non-cacheable
This would allow client or its intermediary components to cache responses and resue them for later requests.
This redues the load on the server and help improv the performance
UNIFORM INTERFACE
All interactions between client , server and intermediary components are based on the uniformity of their interfaces

CODE ON DEMAND
Clients can extend their fucntioanlity by downloading

URI- UNIFORM RESEARCH IDENTIFIER
URI TEMPLATES - Reosuce links can be dynamic
REPRESENTATION
restful resources 

HTTP GET METHOD
The GET method is used to retrieve information from the given server using a given URI.
Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should have no other effect on the data.
IDEMPOTENCE
An operation is considered to be idempotent if it produces the same server state whether we apply it once or
any number of times. HTTP methods such as GET, HEAD (which are also safe), PUT, and
DELETE are considered to be idempotent, guaranteeing that clients can repeat a request and expect the same effect as making the request once.
HTTP POST METHOD
A POST request is used to send data to the server, for example: customer information, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.
POSTMAN - to tst restful services
HTTP HEAD METHOD
Same as GET, but transfers the status line and header section only.
HTTP PUT METHOD
Replaces all current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content
HTTP DELETE METHOD
Removes all current representations of the target resource given by a URI.
HTTP CONNECT METHOD
Establishes a tunnel to the server identified by a given URI.
HTTP OPTIONS METHOD
Describes the communication options for the target resource.
HTTP TRACE METHOD
Performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
CRUD
Create	Read
Update	Delete
HTTP STATUS CODES
1xx Informational
100 Continue
2xx Success
200 OK
3xx Redirection
300 Multiple Choices
4xx Client Error
400 Bad Request
5xx Server Error
500 Internal Server Error
1XX INFORMATIONAL
100 Continue -
The server has received the request headers; the client should proceed to send the request body (for requests which require a body to be sent; eg: a POST request).
101 Switching Protocols –
The requester has asked the server to switch protocols and the server is acknowledging that it will do so
102 Processing -
As a WebDAV request may contain many sub-requests involving file operations, it may take a long time to complete the request. 
Indicates that the server has received and is processing the request, but no response is available yet
2XX SUCCESS
200 OK
Standard response for successful HTTP requests.
201 CREATED
Request has been fulfilled and resulted in a new resource being created.
202 Accepted
Request has been accepted for processing, but the processing has not been completed. 
The request might or might not eventually be acted upon, as it might be disallowed when processing actually takes place.
3XX REDIRECTION
300 Multiple Choices
Indicates multiple options for the resource that the client may follow.
301 Moved Permanently
This and all future requests should be directed to the given URI
308 Permanent Redirect
The request, and all future requests should be repeated using another URI.
4XX CLIENT ERROR
400 Bad Request

The server cannot or will not process the request due to something that is perceived to be a client error
401 Unauthorized

Similar to 403 Forbidden, but specifically for use when authentication is required and has failed or has not yet been provided.
404 Not Found
The requested resource could not be found but may be available again in the future. Subsequent requests by the client are permissible

WEB SOCKET
A protocol providing full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.
SERVLET
A servlet is a small Java program that runs within a Web server. Servlets receive and respond to requests from Web clients, usually across HTTP, the HyperText Transfer Protocol.
ASPECT-ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP) complements Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) by providing another way of thinking about program structure. The key unit of modularity in OOP is the class, whereas in AOP the unit of modularity is the aspect. Aspects enable the modularization of concerns,
such as transaction management that cut across multiple types and objects.

ORM
Object-relational mapping (ORM) is a technique (a.k.a. design pattern) 
of accessing a relational database from an object-oriented language (Java, for example)
JMS
JMS is a part of the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition, and is defined by a specification developed under the 
Java Community Process as JSR 914. It is a messaging standard that allows application components based on the 
Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) to create, send, receive, and read messages.
TRANSACTION
In computer programming, a transaction usually means a sequence of information exchange and related work (such as database updating) 
that is treated as a unit for the purposes of satisfying a request and for ensuring database integrity.
BEAN
A bean is an object that is instantiated, assembled, and otherwise managed by a Spring IoC container.
These beans are created with the configuration metadata that you supply to the container
INVERSION OF CONTROL (IOC)
In software engineering, inversion of control (IoC) describes a design in which custom-written portions of a
computer program receive the flow of control from a generic, reusable library.
DEPENDENCY INJECTION (DI)
Dependency Injection design pattern allows us to remove the 
hard-coded dependencies and make our application loosely coupled, extendable and maintainable.
@REQUESTPARAM ANNOTATION
The @RequestParam annotation is used to bind Servlet request parameters to handler/controller method parameters.
@REQUESTMAPPING
@RequestMapping annotation is used to map a Web request to a handler class or handler method
Example
@RequestMapping(value="/saveuser.html", method=RequestMethod.POST)
public String saveUser(@RequestParam String username,
                       @RequestParam String password) 
{
    // Save User logic
    return "success";
}






